Interesting how you can go from
principal engineer like one of the very
few at a company to senior engineer like
at Uber but my com doubled built a
massive system that handles 400 million
daily active users already. So it used
to be okay well if I made an app that
might be impressive and now I think the
thing that's impressive is like can you
earn $1 from somebody that you don't
know?
Oh so we've heard that you've had 30%
efficiency with AI so we want to pay you
30% less for the same work. For example,
I talk with people at OpenAI and ask
them how do you do how do you ship so
quickly and should I finish with my
bachelor's or complete or go to my
masters try to get a job but if you
don't just go for a masters like the
industry I think kill the clock consider
GitHub really forward thinking fact that
they're increasing hiring entry- level
engineers tells me they know something
what follows is a conversation with
Gerge arg
walked away from an engineering manager
role at Uber to become tech's most
influential newsletter writer and now
makes even more by writing about the
industry than he ever did working in it.
His pragmatic engineer newsletter
reaches over a million readers, more
than the population of San Francisco,
making him the number one tech writer on
Substack. His book, The Software
Engineers Guide Book, Navigating Senior
Tech Lead and Staff Engineer positions
at tech companies and startups, is a
number one top rated book on Amazon and
frankly required reading for anybody who
wants to grow their software engineering
career. He's the guy who senior
engineers and CTO's secretly read every
Tuesday and Thursday to understand
what's really happening in tech. After
working at JP Morgan and Microsoft, then
becoming a principal engineer at
Skyscanner, he took a demotion to a
senior engineer at Uber, where he
eventually became a senior manager. What
I appreciate about Gerge is that he's
not just aggregating what other people
say, but getting to the bottom of
things, originating insights, and
rolling up his sleeves to do real
research. He was the one that made the
observation that the end of the 0%
interest rate era was a primary
contributor to the tech hiring slowdown.
He's the one that first wrote about the
trrimodal nature of software engineering
compensation, revealing how tech
companies actually fall into three
distinct tiers of pay with massive jumps
between them. Tech journalists are the
ones that co-op his work, not the other
way around. In this conversation, we
talk about why junior developers can't
get hired, what actually matters for
career growth, the choice of whether to
break into management, and his concept
of energy as the hidden force that makes
or breaks engineering teams. He
publishes the equivalent of five to
seven books worth of content per year
and just launched a podcast where he
grills tech legends about what they
really think about things. I recently
appeared on the show, but a tech legend
I am not. So, I figured that it was only
fair to turn the tables and put him into
the hot seat. For an extended version of
our conversation, consider a membership
to my channel on YouTube or becoming a
premium subscriber to my Substack where
you'll also get access to my newsletter
archive. Here is my conversation with
Gerge Ro.
Gerge, thanks for uh stopping by the
studio. I'm super excited to have a chat
with you. Just a quick introduction for
you. So, uh, this is, uh, Gerge Aro,
former dev manager, uh, engineer, uh,
worked for a bunch of different
companies. Uh, I think the latest one
was Uber and also, um, the, uh, author
of the number one Substack, uh, in tech,
the pragmatic engineer. Anything I
missed there?
I think that's mostly it. bunch of
software engineering, bit of engineering
management, and then who I had no idea I
would I would do this, but I'm I'm now
writing about software engineering and
I'm hanging out with software engineers,
engineering managers, and trying to
figure out like where tech is going,
what we can learn from it, those kind of
things.
I feel like you are you still style
yourself as a software developer and an
engineering manager even though you know
that particular chapter of your life is
over. Yeah, I I don't work dayto-day,
but I am trying to stay close to just
being grounded. I mean, I can't really
be a manager anymore because I don't
really have people to manage wherever I
can. It these are small things, but I do
build my APIs, your integrations with my
newsletter. I have a a site project
called techpace.com which I build and
it's just a good way to like stay
grounded, keep using the latest tools,
you know, like get get an extra informed
opinion of like these AI tools. Like
every now and then I give some agents
some task and sometimes they work, often
times they don't. It's just I like to
keep a a poll so I don't become this
like oh only secondhand uh person. And
also I feel once you once you've been a
developer it's it's hard to to not be
one. It's a bit like riding a bicycle
like you might not ride a bicycle for
you know 10 years but you can still ride
a bicycle and then you get on and oh
actually it's fun. If I if I you know
cornered you and I forced you to to tell
me whether you are a software developer
or a manager or a writer, you have to
choose just one. Which one are you?
I I'm really trying to just stay a
software engineer at heart. Like this is
what I write about. Like yes, I I write
about it, but I always start by like I
always want to understand stuff. Uh when
when I don't like get it, I try to like
build it and and and run it and and see
how it works. And like that's where I
always always go back to like so that's
what I'm going to like try try to say
and that's also why I I love hanging out
with either current or very recent
software engineers like yourself. You
know you're you're a software developer
at heart but you left tech as a as an
engineering manager. And so maybe you
could help me understand like how you
made the decision between being say a
high level tech IC versus going into uh
management side of things. So by the
time I got to Uber, I was around like I
had roughly 10 years of experience in
the industry depending on how you count
because during university I already
worked full-time but but I I I've been
through like I started as a new grad
engineer then I I I worked as like a
mid-level at Microsoft I was Nge 2 then
I jumped from NGE2 in a really I felt a
bit underleveled I thought I should have
been senior but I then went to principal
engineer at Skyscanner where I was one
of the like I think six or seven
principal engineers across the company
which was I felt I was overleveled
there. Uh and then at Ruber I went to
being a senior engineer like out of all
but throughout this thing my composition
just kept going up. So it's interesting
how you can go from principal engineer
like one of the very few at a company to
senior engineer like at Uber but my comp
doubled. Uh but when I became a senior
engineer so by that time every time I I
could I loved working on different tech
stacks. So, for example, I joined Uber
as a
I interviewed I thought I interviewing
as a mobile engineer because I was doing
iOS at the time at at Skyscanner, but
they messed up my interview and I was on
the backend interview loop, which I was
like, okay, I'll do it because I did
back end before and I I built backend
systems at at Skype on on the web team
at pretty large scale. So, I started the
interview like, okay, let's a mobile
loop, but I'll do a backend loop. And
apparently, I did pretty good. So, I got
an offer as a backend engineer and I was
like, okay, I'll do back and I'm fine.
And then two weeks before I started, my
manager said like, "Can you do Android
because we I cannot tell you why, but we
really need Android." And I was like, "I
did Windows phone, I did iOS." I'm like,
"I didn't do Android, but sure, I'll do
it." So, I literally showed up on the
first day with like this kind of
introductory Android. Well, it wasn't
introductory, but it was like an Android
book and saying like, "Hi, I'm the
senior Android engineer and a senior
engineer doing Android." And and I was
assigned a mentor who was an edge to a
level below me. She's like like what the
[__] is that book in your hand? I was
like hear me out like I I don't know
Android but I promise I will learn very
quickly.
Yeah.
And so I I I learned that but by that
time I I've done a lot of things and
there was this point where I I became a
tech lead pretty quickly on on the
project and I felt that I could
continue. I was a senior engineer. I
could have gone to senior too and I
probably would have gotten there
eventually. But I look back and I was
like I've been doing development for 10
years. I've worked through all these
different tech sacks and I felt I'm not
learning as much like I felt I still had
something to learn with by scale but at
at Skype or well Skype like we built a
massive system that handled 400 million
daily active users already. I mean you
know there is bigger than that but it's
not not many bigger systems. And at the
same time I had the opportunity to go
into management at the time because our
team needed a manager and I was a pretty
good candidate because I was doing being
a tech lead and I was thinking to myself
like I know nothing about management. I
know a lot about software engineering
and I I think I'm pretty good now and
there's a little for me to learn but you
know like learning used to be like this
and then it just kind of flatlined. I I
felt I was flatlining but for management
I knew I'm I'm a baby. I know nothing.
And so I figured
it Uber made it low risk as well. you
had to go through an apprentice
management program for six to 12 months
and then you could transfer back to
being an IC and they meant it
and I was like
I kind of asked myself why not like let
me see if I like management if I'm good
at it and even if this is the case I can
always go back to begin IC and the
second reason I I I said yes cuz these
opportunities don't come often I I I
kind of I always like to talk with other
developers and I I met a lot of
senior/principal developers who were
really frustrated and jaded in their
jobs about like 20 years in because they
really wanted to be a manager but they
could no longer. So I figured there's
this opening and I I think this is an
advice I would give to people. Look, if
you're if you're in 5 to 10 years into
your job and you're being approached
saying, "Hey, do you want to be a
manager?" You have a choice, right? You
can say yes or no. You can try it out or
not. But just know that that will not
always come around. And once you've been
a manager for one or two years, you can
go back to being an IC. You can always
go back to management saying, "I've been
a manager." So I figure this is a pretty
good insurance for me. It opens me. If
I'm a founder, I can hire people and
I'll know what it takes. If I join a
startup, I can go as a staff engineer or
as a manager and I'll just have this
skill set. Now, important Ky this was
like in like before 2020 uh before 2022
before and now the job market is pretty
bad for managers. So, uh there's not as
much job stability, but this still
stands that I personally think it's an
awesome thing to to spend one or two
years as a manager. And some of the best
IC, some of the best staff engineers
I've met at Uber who had like really
strong trajectory. They were so-called
failed managers. They went into
management, they did it for a year, they
give it their best shot, they hated it
and they were not that good at it, but
they came back to being an engineer. And
suddenly they're amazing partner to
their manager cuz like I know what they
do. I want to help them and I don't want
their job. And these things combined and
you know they can actually tell your
manager like I've been a manager. I do
not want to be their manager. I really
respect what you do and I want to help
you. And you know from there on it's a
lot easier to go up on the on the stack.
I'm not sure if you've had like any of
your peers uh you know principal
engineers or or above who used to be
managers like managers who have never
been an IC like essentially that's cut
off from them right like maybe they were
a junior engineer or mid-level engineer
and now they went to management and
they never really got to senior or to
staff and like they're not going to take
a down level to go back to being an IC.
So the the increase in optionality makes
a ton of sense. I I also think it's it's
interesting as well what you point out.
It's it's like opportunities flash in
front of you and when they do you have
to seize them. Uh because you can't just
be like okay well hey gerge do you want
to be a manager and you're like can you
wait like three months while I sort of
like you know that question about like
whether it's even just three months cuz
that's usually that that's kind of still
open but I don't think you realize that
if you are being asked this you are a
high growth company and when I when I
was at Ruber this seemed natural and I
was at high growth before but actually
it is not common to have high growth
companies all the time so if I would
have said no at that time which I could
have by the way like no one was forcing
me we would have started we would either
we were trying to hire external managers
and we struggled because we had such
high standards internally few people
were both qualified or or wanted to do
to get the job. I I I could have just
just sat it out but I I might have not
had that experience. And then the third
reason I there was another reason that I
I said like yeah let me do this is
throughout my career as an engineer I
kind of had a list of stuff that I hated
about my manager. This this sounds
really bad, but but there was a manager
who who I thought was amazing manager at
first cuz so it was so supportive. Every
time we had one-on- ones, I asked like,
"Is there any feedback for me?" So like,
"Thumbs up, good job." I'm like,
"Awesome, awesome manager." I'm like, I
came to him, I'm like, "I'm planning on
doing this. What do you think?" Yeah, do
it, man. And then performance review
time came. And I got an absolutely
average review. This was at Microsoft,
which meant I was in the middle. And I
was like like, "Hey, like like what
could I do better?" And he couldn't say
anything. Meanwhile, my colleague was
promoted who was just very like a lot
more pushy and like honestly probably
did a bit better work than me as well.
But I kind of like hold on like why did
he get promoted? And I realized I had
the manager that just did not care uh at
all. And it took me and I thought at
first I thought it's amazing manager
because they didn't have any conflicts
and it was a don't care manager. So I
was like okay I if I'm a manager I I
don't ever want to be this like I don't
want to tell people good job if I don't
mean it. just say like I have no opinion
or like I don't care like see it would
have been better and then I moved to
another team within also within
Microsoft and I I had the opposite of of
a manager who really really cared to the
point of micromanaging
and I got really frustrated by that as
well again really well-meaning a
first-time manager like really nice per
as as a person like can only say good
things about it but professionally uh uh
I was given a project to lead as a tech
lead and I was doing it was doing good
and I believe in transparency. So I told
him like I think it was like a 3-week
project on on week two. I said like look
I just want to let you know that we are
hitting a bump and there's a small
chance that we will be late but I I've
got it under control and here's what I'm
going to do to change it. He took over.
He immediately came. He's like and and
again this was you know first- time
manager. He didn't want to be but so
then I just made mental notes like okay
I don't want to be a don't care manager.
I don't want to micromanage. I had a
list of these things and by the time it
came like asked me do you want to be a
manager? Like here's the thing like if
you you can either say yes or no but if
you say no you cannot complain if they
hire a manager and it's going to be one
of these
so-called just bad man I will say it I
feel bad manager so and I was like
here's my opportunity to actually try to
be the manager I wish the team had or I
wish I would have had and honestly
if you have an opportunity like this and
you say no you have no right to complain
about managers ever again because doing
the job is a lot harder and I'm pretty
sure people probably complain about me
as well on how I did certain things
which which happens but until you've not
done the job like it's so easy to say oh
management is clueless my manager
doesn't care oh my man management is you
know full of full of ss yeah try to do
the job and then and then you see like
all the other things that are kind of
invisible and and you see how the
sausage is made you know get invited to
the meetings figure out like all the
reasons manager disappear for and so on
this episode is brought to you by linear
let's be honest the issue tracker that
you're using today isn't very good. The
only thing worse than fixing the issue
itself is fighting with the software
that tracks it. Linear is different.
It's incredibly fast, well-designed, and
purpose-built for modern software
development. Engineers like me love the
keyboard shortcuts. It gives me BIM like
vibes, direct integrations with modern
and ubiquitous tools like GitHub, and
built-in project updates that keep
everyone in sync. That way, you don't
update your issue and then immediately
go to Slack to ping the right people.
That's just using Slack for issue
tracking but with more steps. Linear is
the default choice for engineers at some
of the most well-known and fastest
moving companies in the world like
OpenAI, Purscell, and Perplexity. Modern
projects deserve modern issue tracking
that works seamlessly for companies
small, big, and gigantic. I personally
love Linear because I resonate with
their values. You have to trust issue
tracking software from people that have
a zero bug policy on the software that
they sell to other people. Seriously, no
bugs. Whether you're using it at work
already or perhaps wanting to test it
out on that side gig, visit
linear.app/partners/
a-life-engineered.
Thanks again to Linear for sponsoring
today's conversation. There's another
thing which is like I think especially
when you're young and you you join a
company, you think that the manager is
the adult in the room. And so like a big
mistake that I made for sure was just
assuming that they like all managers
must be good and they they got some
secret training that that tells them
exactly what to do on a day-to-day
basis.
Now this is the most surprising thing.
Most managers, most engineering managers
you meet have probably had zero training
and even if they would, it's kind of
like ad hoc. some companies do things
but it's and and all it is like I
remember the day I was still a software
engineer at Uber on title and then I was
an apprentice manager and I was still
the same person right I wasn't that much
smarter I mean Uber did send us to like
a two-day training in internally which
which was better than most people do but
you know the thing changed suddenly like
I became an authority figure like
suddenly I was no longer it was harder
to be friends with uh like I was lucky
that my team kind of you know like a few
people like still kind of like gave me
the real But it was you suddenly like I
was now in charge of their performance.
I had this authority which
it it just adds this thing. So now my
kind of the people who I could really
stay real with were other managers. Like
you know I I could still go out and you
know have a drink with my team but I
could no longer tell them what's truly
on my mind like on the
just because you know like it's it's
hard to talk about some of the the
manager topics, right? So and there's a
lot fewer managers and engineers. So now
suddenly it's it's hard like so so one
thing I know is it's kind of a bit more
lonely especially we were a small office
at the time so there was wasn't that
many managers and yeah like some
managers you you other managers who are
also engineers you get along with well
some you just don't.
Okay. So, you know, there's a there's a
there's an ongoing religious debate
about how technical a manager needs to
be. And obviously, you were a a pretty
senior uh engineer, principal engineer
before you moved over to to management,
but not every manager goes through that
sort of same technical track. And so,
what's your take on the level of
technicality that a manager needs to
have? This is one of the things right
like like a little bit like should an
engineer have a have a degree or or a
formal education and you know my view is
like it it helps a lot but we've seen a
lot of people without any formal
education succeed in fact if you look at
some of the the best engineers you know
they were selftaught and and and so on
especially in games or but but even in
in in big tech so like you know just
putting it out there like I think you
know managers come in all all shapes and
forms and I think the mindset is is the
most important thing so if someone is
not as technical or has not been a
developer like I have heard stories I've
not worked with them but I have stories
of amazing managers who are not
technical but they were so curious and
really good as as with people really
good at motivating people and you know
one of the the people who we could
probably point to as this is like you
know Steve Jobs who who was not as
technical but he turns out he was a
great CEO and like helped create amazing
things just by pushing people so I think
there's environments where where even
non-technical like the managers with not
a technical background meaning they were
never coders or or never developed could
succeed as injury managers. That being
said, I think it's just so much harder.
So, I've heard this story from
Booking.com
uh where at some point apparently they
they said like, okay, managers do not
need to be technical. They do not need
to be software, engine managers. And so,
they they let you know people apply to
roles and and we had a mix of like
technical like, you know, people who
used to be software engineers managers
and people who were not. And what I've
heard a few years later is these
managers were struggling, the
nontechnical ones generally. Now, our
team had a mix of backend engineers,
mobile and and native mobile engineers.
And I knew native mobile really well,
but I didn't really know distributed
systems as well. I'll be honest. I
especially didn't go didn't know Python.
Uh I was just learning those things and
I I I've never built large distributed
systems that had a bunch of concept like
item potency, a strong consistency, all
these things. So what I did as a manager
by the way is I read all the like I I I
sat on the architecture meetings and
initially I just made notes of all the
things I didn't understand. I did not
know what the difference between strong
and strong strong consistency and weak
consistency was and and I I kind of like
asked people and then I looked it up as
well uh durability what is data
durability why is it important why are
we talking about this so I went through
all this and I just like educated myself
and again this was like me I wasn't
technical in these sense few months I I
learned everything so whenever I I
started to read a lot of RFC's we had a
lot of documents I understood and then
you know when we were sitting in in
meetings there were two sides of
managers There was me who I was sitting
there and I was I was arguing like well
actually we're we're going to use Dynamo
DB with AWS and we're not going to use
our on onrem Cassandra because onre
Cassandra does not have strong
consistency Dynamob does and we could
ask strong Cassandra but that's a really
long project which is and then and then
there were the managers who were like
nodding and they're like um I need to
talk about my tech lead and then guess
what guess who won the arguments
bring up an an amazing point which is
just like if you don't know the
difference between strong weak
consistency eventually consistent
systems and there's like big decision
that impacts many teams, you're always
just going to have to block and then
wait for your actual technical adviser
who can go in to frame the decision for
you.
Yeah.
And you may not have the time for that
that translation to occur if there are
multiple stakeholders in the room.
In today's day and age, you can go and
learn anything you want.
Yes. And so there is a choice about
whether you want to dive deep enough to
understand this stuff because everybody
I'll assume everybody that's a manager
is capable of the understanding if they
wanted to dedicate the time to it. So
that's the first point. The second point
is it's often framed as a as a zero sum
game. Oh well I chose not to do that
deep dive. Instead, I wanted to do
something else, you know, that's, you
know, important for being a manager,
like figuring out how to like manage
designers and all like a whole bunch of
other people that
aren't necessarily software developers.
I I you know, the image that pops up
into my head is like, you know, like
European nobility when they go hunting.
You know, they they can have like the
guy with the tray that loads up the gun
and then like finds the the animal and
then the guy just needs to go up and
then like like click the gun if that's
what he wanted to do. And that's that's
hunting, right?
Or or or you can do Canary Reeves who on
on there's like pictures and videos of
him that with the camera crew he is
carrying the camera crew's equipment.
Apparently, they got upset at him
because there's like some union that
doesn't want you to do that. But the
point is like you know he is like
apparently the camera crew loves him
because like he is just like no like
you're we're we're in this together
right?
Yeah. Well actually let's talk about
demographics. So um you know I think
it's it's really difficult if you wanted
to be a frontline or middle manager to
to get a job right now with with the
layoffs that are going on. But I think
the the elephant in the room is entry
level and junior engineers. Yeah.
Right. And um the demographic bomb that
I see is essentially senior engineers
used to be junior engineers. And so
there's a pipeline effect that that sort
of happens and in 5 years
when when whatever plays out in terms of
AI with all of these other companies, do
you think that there's going to be a a
lack of senior engineers? And I have my
reservations about whether AI and
intelligence or whatever will get to the
point where it will replace a senior
engineer. But assuming that it doesn't,
if you were a junior engineer today or
you just, you know, graduated from
college, how would you think about, you
know, getting yourself into the market?
The job market has been brutal for
entry- level engineers since around
2020, right as co started. During CO,
companies stopped hiring junior
engineers because it was full remote. No
one had a clue on what to do with them
like and I mean until before co like you
hired entry- level engineers and you
paired with them you gave them a mentor
or or just had people be around them and
they kind of picked up you know the the
work and and with remote people were
like we know we cannot do that but like
putting a junior engineer for remote
that's a bad idea so they stopped hiring
then at just as the lockdowns were
ending and you know this the inerson
hiring was coming back and some some
actually you know some junior hiring
picked
That's when we got hit. This was so like
around like 2020 2022 or 2023 just as
like junior hiring would have gone back
to like normal as as before. We got hit
at first with uh a lot of the large tech
companies were doing large layoffs cuz
they realized like oh we actually
overhiring during the pandemic. So when
they're hiring they didn't fire. In fact
like Facebook for one or two years they
canceled their internship program and
and they had never done that before. And
just as we're coming back from like okay
the cuts have been done because of the
overhiring and the business tech
business is back and booming and now we
have AI which which is helping actually
like a lot more investment is going in.
There's not a question with a lot of
decision makers like well everyone is
saying uh like I don't believe in it but
they're saying oh AI is it like a junior
engineer and now business leaders are
are sitting people are hearing this and
they're like oh well I guess let's hold
off on hiring because your existing
seniors can just pair with AI and we're
in this really weird situation where
just entry- level hiring for five
straight years has been just really
down. people who I'm hearing are getting
jobs are at really good universities
like just like have really strong
pedigree which is kind of ironic because
right before the common thing was like
don't don't get a degree just go into
tech there's so many jobs you know like
so those ones and people who have
connections and the big companies are
still doing internships they've cut back
but but that's a a solid way of going in
and I was just talking like I don't have
an answer but like I talked with GitHub
CEO a few days ago and he said I've
heard at GitHub they said they're
increasing entry-le hiring junior hiring
and I asked him why they're doing this
and you know they're building co-pilots
so they're seeing all this and he said
like for two reasons one is like the
young people who are coming out of
college they're like AI native like they
use chat GPT without thinking they're
not afraid of it they love it and he
said like we want people with that
mentality is fact he was saying we we
need to change our interview loop to
like encourage people to use like
copilot and everything obviously they
haven't done that yet but they're going
to do it and like some of the very
forward thinking companies like I
consider GitHub really pretty really
forward thinking and yes they're
building AI tools and you know their
business is doing good and solid but the
fact that they're increasing hiring
entry- level engineers tells me they
know something and also one thing we
should add is uh we don't like we keep
talk focusing on big tech and scaleups
and startups
and these are the places that can afford
to not hire entry level because they can
afford seniors and they they pay better
but the place where entry levels used to
come from is consulting uh developer
agencies and these massive companies
like Accenture or Cognizant or or Though
Works or or some of those
and so they're in a trouble right now
because
AI like I I' I've talked with one of one
of these big companies which who employ
like 50,000 people and an engineer told
me that their CEO on the all hands told
them that they're having problem right
now the like their customer is all of
fang right all all of Facebook m
Facebook Microsoft Apple Amazon you know
they have like developer teams in there
and several All of these companies came
back and said said like oh so we've
heard that you've had 30% efficiency
with AI which actually on today's build
Accenture literally said we are 30% more
efficient with AI said we've heard
you've said that so we want to pay you
30% less for the same work and they were
like excuse me and no every single one
of them says like we heard you're more
efficient with AI we will pay you less
and you know these companies so the CEO
at this company was trying to be cool
they're like don't worry we're not going
to lay at people off right now. But the
reality is either we get 30% more
business
or we need to be 30% more lean
eventually. So these places that hire
the most junior engineers are actually
very much under threat of just getting
lesser and they you know they whatever
revenue they have that's many people
they hire. So I think if you're looking
into breaking an industry, it might not
be a bad idea to either if you're if
you're thinking of like should I finish
with my bachelor's or complete or go to
my masters, try to get a job. But if you
don't just go for a masters like the
industry, I think should
kill the clock if you're in a situation
where you might not have a job or you're
at university. Probably the best thing
you can do is build an app, scratch your
itch or look at a problem that has use
AI to help you bring build a web page or
React Native app, launch it. Like if
you're not doing that, I'm pretty sure
you're going to have a hard time getting
a job cuz like now that AI tools are
out, like the reality is that, you know,
companies don't like to tell this cuz I
don't think they realize, but soon
enough they will want to hire like the
the new generation people who know live
and breathe these tools and you're not
going to learn it at university and all
your peers will be like, "Oh, I've done,
you know, like this and this courses,
you know, did algebra. I got a I got an
A. My my GPA is like 4.0. Great." But
then there's the other one like, "Oh,
yeah. I launched. So even before AI,
like I I just talked with an engineer at
OpenAI, uh Jambi, who's going to be on
on the podcast, you know, this was
before AI, but when she graduated, she
already had four production grade apps
on the app store. She was lucky enough
to get into an accelerator with the
university and they did it, but this was
before AI. And now with AI, like what is
stopping you? Like you can vibe code a
thing. And what is stopping you from
releasing it and tweaking it and also
giving showing that you gave a lot more
uh like love and care to it and it's
actually like just you know putting a
game out there that is playable or or
any any of it suddenly that shows that
you actually are someone who can build
stuff and I think this is what companies
will will increasely hire for and and
right now universities and colleges are
like way behind. So, you know, take
advantage like obviously, you know,
complete your classes if you're in an
institution. And if you're not
especially, then there's no other way
but build
with AI vibe coding, all of this stuff.
I think of it like fast fashion. You're
just like, "Oh, I need a shirt." And so,
you go buy a $3 shirt and then you wear
it and then if it breaks, you kind of
throw it away. So, I think the goalpost
shift in terms of like what's
impressive. So, it used to be, okay,
well, if I made an app, that might be
impressive. But now, I think the thing
that's impressive is like, can you earn
$1 from somebody that you don't know? If
you launch an app and you can collect $1
from, and you know, that changes
everything. Hey, you put that on your
resume. Hey, I I did an app. It, you
know, it helps me name my pets or
something like that. And, you know, got
a couple hundred users or whatever. And
then you have some sort of like revenue
coming in. so much more impressive than
like, hey, I vibe coded a to-do app,
you know, in in React.
Awesome. You know, I think the the the
thing that I'll end this part on is like
with every
step change in technology, the number of
developers has increased. And so I worry
a little bit or maybe time will tell
about whether the amount of developers
uh increases with AI. I think maybe it
does because a bunch of people that
don't know how to code or were right on
the margins now are able to produce
code. But I think if if we're in a spot
where there the population of software
developers increases, then I think if
you are a junior or entry level person,
you're going to stand to benefit from
that. Don't forget that every time there
was a step change in software engineing,
it's true that the number of programmers
increased. But if you think about it,
what happened before let's say it might
have been the 60s or 70s when most code
was uh in assembly low-level languages
and compiled languages uh and highle
languages appeared like cobalt was one
of the first later for etc. Number of
developers doing low-level languages I'm
not sure increased by that much. What
increased is the number of developers
doing the higher level languages. So in
this case I am 110% sure that we will
have more people create code how and
what we will call programming might
change a little bit and I'm also sure
that like if if you know there's there's
two cases here like some of these people
who are creating this new software with
prompts and vibe coding and all that so
like there will be a lot of people with
like entrepreneurial ideas you know the
business people the business co-founder
they'll be like oh I can get my idea to
production great they'll do that and
either they'll fail and then okay well
this whole thing doesn't matter they
still need to hire an engineer then the
number Avengers increases cuz now
they're like, "Oh, I'll do it with AI,
but I'm just going to hire an engineer."
Or they might succeed and they might be
able to earn their first dollar with
this thing. And at some point, you know,
they're going to add more features and
at some point if they start making
enough money, they will want to bring in
someone a little bit like, you know, if
you're if you do a bunch of videos, at
some point you bring in an editor
because you just need to grow your
business. You know, like Mr. Beast now
employs I don't know how many people,
probably more than 100 people. If you're
a a junior entry level, mid-level
engineer, how do you
catch the eye of management?
This is from my experience and also when
I was a manager, I seen it like step one
is you know people think like oh let me
talk to the man my manager understand
their goals and all that BS. first do
your job like like be able to like the
work that you're assigned like in some
companies you are assigned work uh the
more seen you are the more you're kind
of like given a scope first you need to
crush it like you need to be really good
at that like and that is that is number
one espe when you join a new company you
know like like on board as fast as you
can get feedback not just from your
manager but also the the people around
you and just like start to create this
like you know like track people and try
to get a leaderboard of like between
your team in terms terms of output,
ship, shipping features, looking at code
reviews, uh giving feedback where you
are initially, you should be pretty low.
So like you know don't flatter yourself
and then see you know see who the best
engineers are what are they doing like
and this will vary a little bit like you
know for example at Uber like we had a
lot of like RFC's and and documentation
the best engineers actually did a bunch
of review but they still shipped code in
a startup you will have none of that
documentation it's just like taking out
taking functionality in some places you
might have I was just at a startup where
they have a daily standup the whole
company and you know the people who ship
interesting and impactful stuff they
talk about the business impact it might
be that. So anyway, figure out like what
impactful is and and try to emulate it
like at at first and just be good at
like getting stuff done reliably. Like
if if you don't have that, none of the
next things matter. You're interested in
growing but not just growing. The key
thing is you're interested in helping
the team and helping the company.
Yeah.
So this is something you know like I've
seen this a lot and I I've been a victim
of this myself as well. I'm like oh you
know I'm interested I actually would
like to get better at public talking.
I'm sure it'll help others but it'll
help myself as well. So let me go talk
at a conference. Cool. I talked at a
conference where I present at the
company and you know it's it's I did
some great stuff. I talked at a second
conference as well and I I did this at
Skype for example. I talked about how we
built Skype and all that and I thought I
was doing a great job and then when
promotion time came I'm like you know my
manager was like okay you know you're
like you know you meet expectations but
I'm like but like no one else on my team
went and talked like I did all these
talks and like I see some staff level
engineers doing talks and like I did
more than them and you know my manager
didn't tell me at the time but when I
became manager I realized like well it
didn't matter like it did not help my
team it did not help my business and
staff level engineers the ones that did
the talk they went to industry
conferences is and their goal was for
example to drive recruitment and they
like it was actually part of their goal.
They didn't just show up. They actually
talked with their manager saying, "Hey,
like what are the most the biggest
problems of the organization?" Well,
we're not we're not getting enough uh
platform engineers. Oh, cool. Where
could we reach them? I have an idea. If
I go to this conference like Droidcon
and I do this talk, we might get an
increase in inbound for senior platform.
So, they had a goal and they helped the
business. But if you just think and and
this happens today you know a lot of the
some listeners might be doing things on
a or not everyone but some people do
things on a site like you know LinkedIn
posts or YouTube or all that unless it's
helping your team or the business no one
will care. I mean like it's not going to
count against you but all the effort you
put in what you thought you're helping
the company well if you didn't didn't
help your team and and and it you didn't
agree with your manager on how it's
going to they'll be like yeah I mean
nice job but I cannot take it into
account. Don't conflate the output which
is like going to the talk with the value
that was sort of like driving that
particular manifestation
and and also don't don't conflate you
growing professionally because you doing
talks for example it is professional
growth it's really helped me as as a
person don't conflate growing
professionally with this will be
valuable definitely for my team or my
manager in ideal world like you do
things that are both there but sometimes
it might be worth by the way doing stuff
that that helps you professionally but
it doesn't help the company. And just be
okay with that. Like I I was kind of
upset for a while cuz I thought that if
I'm growing professionally, I should be
rewarded for it. And I was growing
professionally. I I really was. And I
wasn't being rewarded for it. But
understanding that the business can only
reward you. Like it's a business. Like I
think you really need to understand that
what you are you are being paid because
in the end of the day, whatever you're
being paid, you're bringing in way more
value. Even though as a software
engineer, you're just not as connected.
In sales, you would see black and white.
So the earlier you understand this
mindset the the more and think and
that's why eventually you will want to
work for a company where like you
actually enjoy like helping this company
you know if you're working at a lone
shark company and you're being paid I
mean congrats but you might realize at
some point like maybe this is not how
you want to help the world right
got it so you're you're saying like
there's this ven diagram like what's
good for the company what's good for
your personal growth optimal world those
circles would be the same in reality you
know you know They're they're not
disjointed, but you know, potentially
the intersection is not as large as you
might think it is.
Cool. Uh all right, let's go to uh rapid
fire. So, what do you think about the
the industry is sort of like overvalued
and what do you think is undervalued?
I think I think what's overvalued right
now is like oh all the AI what what it
can do etc. And what is undervalued is
manual work. When I talked with Chip
Chip Huan with AI engineering, I was
like, "Oh, how did you do this like
amazing diagram where you track 900
repos and all the things?" And she's
like, "Oh, I just did it manually." I'm
like, "What? You didn't write any AI
tools for it?" So, like I I I do think
doing things manually is undervalued.
And I think people are trying to say
like, "Oh, you know, let Copilot or
whatever do it."
What's one thing that you can't stand
right now that's going on within the
tech industry? There there's there's not
many things, but like one thing I just
really dislike is if I see people,
especially companies, knowingly fake
demos or capabilities or show things
that that you pretend to to show things
that that do work. And we're seeing this
again, this this goes back to like we're
seeing this with AI, but I'm now seeing
some sometimes happening with with
software engineering as well. I I just
that's one thing. And I I personally
don't like the projections of what we
might see in one or two or three years
because I've just seen so many times
that they didn't happen. A good example
is self-driving and Tesla. Since 2013,
Elon Musk has been saying that
self-driving is one or two years out
maximum. So it should have been in 2015,
16, 17, and so on. And I don't believe
he's lying, by the way. Like I I do
believe that he he means that he's an
engineer. He he has access to all the
internal information. All I'm saying is
as an engineer I believe what I see and
what already works and progress has
sometimes gone taken off and it's gone
amaz
Mo M's Moore's law we called it a law
like compute every year would would
double it was only law in hindsight and
it stopped at some point so I I think I
think as engineers like it's good to
look at what's working I mean you know
don't ignore what the future might hold
but if you could predict the future I
think people would would be really well
off and don't forget like how it was
impossible to let's say predict COVID
and then it just like happened. Wow.
Yeah. I I think it's a really great
point like people gravitate towards bold
predictions and I think we're actually
in a spot where you know not a lot of
people are held accountable to those
bold predicts. So Elon Musk obviously
you know that's that's a really famous
example. I think a lot of these like AI
you know fortune tellers are basically
saying you know in 8 months you know we
are going to see a you know a 5x like
increase in
and and and don't forget right now it's
AI but we kind of forget the previous
ones because they weren't as loud but we
had low code and no code we had like
Gartner predictions that like 70% of all
software written in 2024 would be no
code and low code clicked together and
like that didn't happen. We had it with
crypto. I'm not sure what happened
beforehand, but well, the mobile
predictions for smart mobile probably
all right by the way. So, like, you
know, there's this thing where some of
them some of them turn out right, some
of them don't. Uh, it's it's it's very
noisy and I think it's particularly
stressful for us as developers because
this time this is kind of talking about
us. Usually, we'd be like, "Oh,
whatever. It's the other people."
So, we talked about one thing that you
can't stand. What's something that
you're like just super excited about
that maybe nobody's looking at? One one
thing that no one's looking at and I
wouldn't mind at some point exploring it
more is the importance of and I got this
from Steve McConnell the author of code
complete who I recently talked to so
this is this I it really resonated with
me the importance of of energy in
getting things done so we talk a lot
about process we talk a lot about let's
say now how AI tool to tools like how
tools can can do this if previously it
was about scrum or cambban or or or now
like there's like the lean startup and
all these things that you can do the
pomodoro technique etc. And we talk
about like vision setting and and and
focus and these things but I haven't
heard really Steve told me and I agree
everyone talk about the importance of
energy cuz what I noticed is if you have
energy of energy of wanting to get
something done you kind of just get it
done like with or without AI tools even
beforehand or even and then these things
speed you up but if you don't have the
energy and this is like a team which is
kind of just low on energy there just
doesn't matter what process you follow
doesn't matter how you you follow this
and I think maybe a sign we recognize
this in in tech a bit more that if you
have a high energy culture for example I
talk with people at open AI and I asked
them how do you do how do you ship so
quickly and they just told me like well
it's the people but and they were not
lying right they were really trying to
tell me but and they told me something
special something's in the air is that
electricity like everyone is so full of
energy and at some point you know like
eventually companies run out of that
energy I think we can see it with let's
say you know Google I'm sure parts of it
are coming back but that light bulb went
out and you know OpenAI took them over.
So I don't think we talk about this. So
I I think as an engineer like you can
think about like how much energy do I
have and obviously sometimes you need to
refill the bank but when you join a
company like how much energy do they
have? I think a lot about this as well.
It's like what's the difference between
like labor and like something that you
want to do. So, you think back to video
games, like I don't know if you ever
play like Factorio, but like why is it
that like you like doing low-level work
that's kind of annoying is fun and
addicting and you'll do it for 24 hours
straight like hunched over your computer
at work, you know, you're just like, oh,
you're trying to like minimize the
amount of like, you know, like manual
labor that you're doing. I think the the
companies that are really good sort of
like turn the work in front of them into
a game that everybody wants to win.
Yeah. And then then all of a sudden it's
just like much more than like hey we're
putting in 40 hours or 50 hours a week.
It's just like no this is this is what
we're doing right now. I'm playing Sim
City. I'm playing Factorio. I'm playing
this video game and I want to win. And
also I think Factori is really good one
because we talk a lot about how these
tools let's say will make will uh AI
tools specifically the agents how they
can turn the boring and repetitive task
and you know they can take over a lot of
the things. But if you think about it
like with Factorio like like sometimes
you can get energy from from doing stuff